
         Notes on use of Empire: Degas, Ecis and RIPL
         ============================================
              P. Oblozinsky (BNL), March 2001
   updated by R. Capote (Uni Sevilla/CEADEN Havana), May 2001
         updated by M. Herman (IAEA), June 2001


These notes are ment for a user of Empire-2.15-12 interested in
its two new modules, Degas and Ecis. We do not discuss another
new module, preequilibrium hybrid Monte Carlo system HMS, of
primary importance at intermediate energies. An interface to
RIPL optical model library is also explained.

1. Degas
========

1.1 Original code

Degas is exciton model code with angular-momentum conservation.
The code was written by E. Betak (Slovak Acad Sci, Bratislava,
Slovakia). It is an improved version of the code Pegas by E.
Betak and P. Oblozinsky. Degas was added to Empire as its new
module by P. Oblozinsky (BNL) in February 2001.

1.2  Capture

The primary motivation was to improve (n,g) reactions, termed
capture, for fast neutrons. It was demonstrated by Bratislava-
Ljubljana collaboration (Betak, Cvelbar, Likar et al) that Degas
performs well compared to direct-semidirect capture model. This
was shown by comparing practically all available exper data for
(n,g) and (p,g) excitation functions with Degas and DSD
predictions in the incident energy range 8-20 MeV.

These excitation functions show relatively broad bell-shape form
with peak around giant dipole resonance energy. At GDR energies,
observed capture cross sections are about 1 mb for (n,g) and
about 0.6 mb for (p,g). There may be small shift by 1-2 MeV in
the peak position from Degas compared to exper data. However,
small shifts cannot be excluded even when DSD model is used.

1.3 Particle emission

Emission of n and p display standard exciton model features.
Since MSD model used by Empire does not cover charge exchange
reactions, such as (n,p), Degas provides useful improvement of
this reaction channel as well. In addition, Degas can be used
to calculate (n,n') cross sections and to substitute MSD/MSC if
necessary.

1.4. Input and tuning in Empire

DEGAS     1.
This input line invokes Degas in Empire. It replaces default
value DEGAS=0. Empire provides two options for tuning Degas:

GDIV      VAL
This parameter, used also by the multistep compound model, means
that the code adopts single-particle level density g=A/VAL rather
than default value g=A/13. This prescription is used in all
reaction channels, with A being the mass number.

GDIVP     VAL
This parameter changes g-value in the proton channel to g=A/VAL.
In all other channels the default value is used unless changed
by GDIV.

If necessary, further tuning could be done via matrix element for
residual nucleon-nucleon interaction (proportional to Kalbach
constant, presently set to K = 100, see akdegas in degas.f).

1.5 Compatibility

It is important to realize that Empire is a complex code where
some parts of cross section may be alternatively described by
different modules. The current version of Empire has 3 modules
for preequilibrium decay: MSD and MSC, and Degas. While MSD and
MSC are clearly compatible, none of them is compatible with Degas.
Therefore, Degas cannot be used together with MSD and MSC. For
instance, MSC, including its GST option for capture, is not
compatible with Degas.

However, Degas is compatible with Ecis in the region where the
two models overlap: (n,n') reactions. The reason is that Degas
calculates statistical component of cross section and Ecis its
direct component. Thus, Degas provides statistical contribution
to discrete levels, in general very small, irrespective of their
structure. Most of Degas contribution goes to continuum region.
Ecis covers direct coupled-channels contribution to discrete
levels, in general very strong for collective levels. We note
that Ecis is restricted to discrete levels.


2. Ecis
=======

2.1 Original code

Ecis is well known and highly respected code based on generalized
(deformed) optical model and coupled-channels model (CCM) by J.
Raynal (CEA Saclay, France). Ecis is important for modelling of
reactions on deformed nuclei, in particular, for description of
strong population of collective discrete levels in the (n,n')
channel. Ecis-95 was added to Empire as its new extensive module
by R. Capote (CEADEN, Habana, Cuba and University of Seville, Spain)
in February 2001. Symmetric rotational, vibrational-rotational and
harmonic vibrational CCM modes are available.

2.2. Input in Empire

Ecis is invoked by the input line DIRECT, with values 1, 2 or 
3. This will replace the default value DIRECT = 0.

An important feature is an automatized preparation of detailed
input for Ecis. This is done by using Empire built-in discrete
level schemes (orsi.liv) and built-in deformation parameters
(nix-moller-audi.dat, see beta2 for quadrupole deformations).
Since Empire has no table for vibrational (dynamical) deformations,
these are defined in a somewhat ad hoc manner (0.15 for quadupole
and 0.05 for octupole vibrations). 

Majority of deformed nuclei is covered, rotational and vibrational, 
even-even and even-A with integer spins, as well as odd-A with 
half-integer spins. Vibrational even-even nuclei and even-A are 
also covered. Important exception are the vibrational odd-A nuclei. 
In this case automatic construction of the collective level file 
is not possible, therefore, user must construct the corresponding 
file himself (see TARGET_COLL.DAT file description below)

Once Ecis is invoked, the code prepares several interim files
ecis95.* to be read by Empire. In most cases, the code prepares two 
additional important files (see Section 4 for further discussion):

- TARGET_COLL.DAT, with collective levels and their deformations
  to be used by rotational CCM, or their vibrational deformations
  and phonon structure to be used by vibrational CCM.

- OMPAR.DIR, with parameters of the optical model to be used in
  the inelastic channel (discrete collective levels). OM parameters 
  may be selected via new keyword DIRPOT (similar to OMPOT, but only 
  for the inelastic channel). This information must be supplemented 
  by parameters from TARGET_COLL.DAT file.

Ecis can be invoked by Empire in three different ways, using input
DIRECT=1,2 and 3. The default value, DIRECT=0, means that spherical
optical model SCAT2 will be used and no discrete level excitation
by direct reactions is considered.

DIRECT    1.
Population of (n,n') or (p,p') discrete collective levels is calculated 
by CCM. This gives exact direct cross section. However, spherical
transmission coefficients Tl provided by SCAT2 are used for whole
energy grid, that is, for subsequent preequilibrium and HF calculations.
These results are renormalized at the Tl level by taking into account
direct component. Elastic, absorption and inelastic total cross 
sections are taken from the CCM calculations.

The option DIRECT=1 is fairly fast, though some accuracy may be lost. 
In general, it should perform well for weakly coupled levels. For 
strong coupling, such as highly deformed rotational bands in heavy 
nuclei, it should be used with caution. It is recommended option 
if accuracy is not a must and appropiate coupled-channels optical model 
parameters are available.

DIRECT    2.
Population of (n,n') or (p,p') collective levels is calculated by CCM 
as above. Importantly, CCM is used consistently, considering ground 
state and coupled levels, to calculate all necessary transmission 
coefficients for subsequent preequilibrium and HF calculations. These 
CCM transmission coefficients sum to absorption cross section that is 
available for preeq + HF decay. This absorption cross section and 
coupled-channels excitation of collective levels give together reaction
cross section. This is an exact option, considering flux decrease due 
to collective excitation at the level of Tl.

In the first run with DIRECT=2, Tl are calculated for whole energy grid 
(incident energy and below). These values are stored in the file 
*.tl for further use. Although the first run takes quite a lot of time, 
all succesive runs are much faster. It should be noted that file *.tl 
can be used for such runs if no changes in files TARGET_COLL and OMPAR 
were made. One *.tl set is produced for each incident energy present in 
the input file. It is the recommended option for very accurate 
calculation. Appropiate coupled-channels optical model parameters must 
be available.

DIRECT    3.
Population of (n,n') or (p,p') collective levels is calculated by
DWBA. This gives approximate direct cross section. However, spherical
transmission coefficients Tl provided by SCAT2 are used for whole
energy grid, that is for subsequent preequilibrium and HF calculations.
These results are renormalized at the Tl's level by taking into 
account direct component. Elastic, absorption and inelastic total 
cross sections are taken from the SCAT2 (Spherical OM) calculations.

The option DIRECT=3 is fairly fast, though some accuracy may be 
lost. In general, it should perform well for weakly coupled levels. 
For strong coupling, such as highly deformed rotational bands in 
heavy nuclei, it should be used with caution. The DWBA option is of 
advantage if coupled-channels optical model is not available. In this 
case we can use spherical OM parameters for DWBA calculation tuning 
inelastic cross section by adjusting dynamical deformations of the 
collective levels in file TRAGET_COLL.DAT


2.3 Tuning in Empire

Tuning is possible by modifying deformation parameters in file
TARGET_COLL.DAT and optical model parameters in OM files OMPAR.*.
This should be done by editing these files.

Vibrational-rotational model can be used, but not automatically. 
User must edit TARGET_COLL.DAT file to add vibrational level and its 
phonon structure to the already existing (automatically created) ground 
state band structure.

An example of this latter model is provided in Pu-240 test case. In 
this example two vibrational levels corresponding to one L=0 and one 
L=2 phonons with dynamical deformation 0.1 and 0.08 are added at 
energies of 0.86 and 0.9 MeV respectively to the ground state band of 
Pu-240. Total number of levels was modified from 4 to 6. Phonon number 
(column Lph) was changed to 1 in the new levels corresponding to phonon 
states. The angular momentum of the phonon is calculated by the code as 
INT(J), and thus it depends on the total angular momentum on the level.

2.4. Compatibility

In addition to total cross sections and elastic scattering, Ecis, as 
implemented in Empire, calculates inelastic scattering cross sections 
only. It is in this reaction channel, where questions of compatibility 
with Degas and MSD/MSC arise.

As explained above, Ecis is compatible with Degas. In addition, Ecis is 
compatible with MSD and MSC provided that only continuum part of MSD is 
taken into account. This feature is already implemented in the current 
version of Empire.

From practical point of view, user interested in good modeling of (n,g) 
and (n,p) should use Ecis together with Degas. In this case, also 
(n,n') should be described fairly well by the current version of Empire, 
by taking cross sections for discrete levels from Ecis and cross 
sections for continuum from Degas.

However, if one focuses on (n,n') channel, then most likely an option of 
using Ecis together with MSD/MSC should be preferred.


2.5 Model priorities

Starting with 2.15-12 version Empire allows to include different preeq
models in a single calculation run. This is achieved using standard 
keywords DIRECT, MSD, MSC, DEGAS, HMS (not implemented yet) and GST. 
These keywords retain their usual meaning, that is, when they are 
different from 0 the models are activated. When combining deifferent 
models the priorities are the following:

ECIS   - Results taken for inelastic scattering to collective levels
         indepedently of settings for the remaining models.

MSD    - Results for inelastic continuum taken independently of other
         settings. Inelastic to discrete levels is suppressed if ECIS is
         active.

MSC    - Results for inelastic and charge-exchange to continuum if not
         suppressed by DEGAS or HMS. If GST=1, MSC gamma emission is
         taken independently of other settings.

DEGAS  - Provides inealstic and charge-exchange to continuum and to
         discrete levels if MSD and MSC are not active. Otherwise only
         charge-exchange contribution is used. Gamma emission is used
         if GST=0.

HMS    - Provides inelastic and charge-exchange to continuum and to
         discrete levels if MSD and MSC are not active. Otherwise only
         charge-exchange contribution is used. Suppresses DEGAS results
         for particle emission if DEGAS is active. Does not provide
         gamma rays, thus DEGAS results are taken if GST=0.

Overlapping contributions are summed up. Also, the Compound Nucleus
contribution is added in all cases. Concise summary of used models is
printed as a table at the beginning of long output *.lst. Selecting
DIRECT =1 (or 2 or 3), MSD=1, MSC=1, DEGAS=1 (or eventually HMS=1) is
supposed to give best results at low energies (up to 20 MeV).
    


3. RIPL OM interface
====================

Interface to RIPL optical model segment was added to Empire as its 
new module by R. Capote in March 2001.

RIPL OM parameters are selected via OMPOT input line. It has the
same structure as the standard OMPOT line, with two values. The 
first value must be a negative number, corresponding to the catalog 
number of the RIPL optical model segment. The second value refers 
to particle. For example,

OMPOT    -401.     1 
selects RIPL Wilmore-Hodgson global potential (RIPL number 401) 
for n, and

OMPOT   -4004.     2 
selects RIPL CC potential for p (to be used for Au-197 only).

For a given RIPL potential the corresponding OMPAR.RIPL file is 
created, which corresponds to OMPAR.INT for internal potentials. The
file OMPAR.RIPL can be edited to change OM parameters from the RIPL 
recommended values if desired. Note that RIPL CC potentials include 
information on collective discrete levels, meaning that in this case
OMPAR.RIPL contains OM parameters as well as collective discrete 
levels.

Usually both files OMPAR.RIPL and OMPAR.INT will exist for a given
problem, because not all potentials are specified to be read from
the RIPL.


4. Optical model handling
=========================

The Ecis module, along with RIPL interface, brought into Empire 
entirely new complexity of use of optical model potentials. In 
particular, all related input keywords (DIRECT, DIRPOT and OMPOT) 
must be used with considerable care. This section explains different 
combinations of these keywords, focusing on the use of optical model 
parameters within EMPIRE. 

This will be done by discussing several actual examples of neutron
induced reactions. As targets we consider spherical nucleus Fe-54 with 
dynamic deformation (vibrational), and deformed Eu-153 with static 
deformation (rotational). In general, appropriate input file may 
contain the following lines:

OMPOT      x.    y               ;Internal OM for particle y
DIRECT     x.                    ;Ecis: CC, CC full or DWBA
DIRPOT   -xx.                    ;RIPL OM for direct (inelastic) channel
OMPOT    -xx.    z               ;RIPL OM for particle z


Example a)
---------- 
DWBA + internal spherical OM (SOM) on spherical vibrational nucleus 
(Fe-54). Our goal is to perform calculations using internal EMPIRE 
potentials for all channels, along with inelastic scattering calculated 
by ECIS DWBA option using the same internal SOM.

Input file must contain the line:
DIRECT    3.

Resulting OM files:
OMPAR.INT   - default internal SOM for all channels used in HF 
              calculation
OMPAR.DIR  - OM employed for DWBA calculations to (n,n') discrete 
              levels. This potential is the same as the one used by 
              internal SOM (default in this case, since OMPOT was not 
              invoked at all) for all neutron emissions.

In the subsequent runs one can adjust inelastic scattering cross section
by changing SOM inside OMPAR.DIR, or by changing dynamical deformations
inside TARGET_COLL.DAT file (initial deformation values are 0.15 for 
quadrupole and 0.05 for octupole vibrations)

Example b)
----------
DWBA + internal spherical OM (SOM) on spherical vibrational nucleus 
(Fe54) + RIPL SOM #10 for inelastic channel. Our goal is to perform 
calculation using internal EMPIRE potentials for all channels, but 
including inelastic scattering calculated by ECIS DWBA option using 
the RIPL potential catalog number 10.

Input file must contain two lines:
DIRECT     3.
DIRPOT   -10.    

Resulting OM files:
OMPAR.INT   - default internal SOM for all channels used in HF 
              calculation
OMPAR.DIR  - SOM employed for DWBA calculations to collective 
              discrete levels, in this case RIPL SOM potential #10.

In the subsequent runs we can adjust inelastic scattering cross section
by changing SOM inside OMPAR.DIR or by changing dynamical deformations
inside TARGET_COLL.DAT file (initial deformation values are 0.15 for 
quadrupole and 0.05 for octupole vibrations).

Example c) 
----------
Coupled channel method (CCM) + internal spherical OM (SOM) on spherical
nucleus (Fe54) + RIPL SOM #10 for inelastic channel. Our goal is to 
perform calculation using internal EMPIRE potentials for all channels, 
but including inelastic scattering calculated by ECIS CCM option using 
the RIPL potential catalog number 10.

Input file must contain 2 lines:
DIRECT     1.
DIRPOT  - 10.   

Resulting OM files:
OMPAR.INT   - internal SOM for all channels used in HF calculation
OMPAR.DIR  - SOM employed for CC calculation to (n,n') collective 
              discrete levels, in this case RIPL SOM #10.

In the subsequent runs we can adjust inelastic scattering cross section
by changing SOM inside OMPAR.DIR or by changing dynamical deformations
inside TARGET_COLL.DAT file as above.

Example d)
---------- 
Coupled-channels method (CCM) + RIPL SOM #221 for all neutron emissions
(except inelastic channel) + RIPL CC OM #2004 for inelastic channel +
internal spherical OM (SOM) for the rest of channels on deformed 
nucleus (Eu-153). Our goal is to perform exact calculation using 
internal EMPIRE potential for all charged particle channels. For the 
neutron emission the RIPL SOM # 221 (local potential for Eu-153) will 
be used for all channels, except inelastic one. For the inelastic 
channel we are going to calculate transmission coefficients consistently 
by CCM using the RIPL CC OM potential catalog number 2004.

Input file must contain 3 lines:
DIRECT      2.
DIRPOT  -2004.   
OMPOT    -221.   1

Resulting OM files:
OMPAR.INT   - internal SOM for all charged particle channels used in 
              HF calculation
OMPAR.RIPL  - deformed OM employed for CC calculation for fusion and
              inelastic channel, in this case RIPL potential catalog 
              number 2004. (Inside this potential the collective levels 
              and deformation are also stored). Further, the file
              contains RIPL SOM #221 employed for all neutron emissions
              except of inelastic. 

OMPAR.DIR is not created in this case. The point is that deformed OM is 
used exactly and all relevant parameters can be found in OMPAR.RIPL.

In the subsequnet runs we can adjust inelastic scattering cross section
by changing SOM inside OMPAR.RIPL or by changing static deformation
of the ground state band inside TARGET_COLL.DAT file (initial value is
experimental g.s. quadrupole deformation). In this case we are using 
specially suited CC deformed OM from the RIPL. Thus, collective levels 
are stored together with potential parameters inside OMPAR.RIPL file 
(potential used for fusion and inelastic channel).

Example e) 
----------
Coupled-channels method (CCM) + RIPL SOM #221 for all neutron emissions
(except inelastic channel) + RIPL CC OM #2004 for inelastic channel +
internal spherical OM (SOM) for the rest of channels on deformed nucleus 
(Eu-153). We want to perform calculation using internal EMPIRE potential 
for all charged particle channels. For the neutron emission the RIPL SOM 
#221 (local potential for Eu-153) will be used for all channels, except 
inelastic one. For the inelastic channel we are going to calculate 
inelastic scattering by CCM using the RIPL CC OM potential catalog 
number 2004.

Input file must contain 3 lines:
DIRECT      1.
DIRPOT  -2004.   
OMPOT    -221.   1

Resulting OM files:
OMPAR.INT   - internal SOM for all charged particle channels,
              used in HF calculation
OMPAR.DIR  - deformed OM employed for CC calculation for inelastic 
              channel, in this case RIPL potential catalog number 2004.
              (Inside this potential collective levels and deformation
              are also stored).
OMPAR.RIPL  - RIPL SOM #221 employed for other neutron emissions

In the subsequnt runs we can adjust inelastic scattering cross section
by changing SOM inside OMPAR.DIR or by changing static deformation
of the ground state band inside the same file. In this case we are using 
specially suited CC deformed OM from the RIPL. Thus, collective levels 
are stored together with potential parameters inside OMPAR.DIR file.


5. Examples
===========

Empire-2.15-11 package contains 6 examples of the Ecis-Empire use. These
examples focus on various combinations of input keywords DIRECT, DIRPOT 
and OMPOT as discussed in Section 4 above.

Fe54DIR3_DEFAULTPOT.zip (example a) 
 n+Fe-54 at 5 MeV, Ecis: DWBA (vibrational), OM: default internal only

Fe54DIR3_DIRPOT10.zip   (example b) 
 n+Fe-54 at 5 MeV, Ecis: DWBA (vibrational), OM: RIPL #10 spherical for 
 inelastic, otherwise default internal

Fe54DIR1_DIRPOT10.zip   (example c) 
 n+Fe-54 at 5 MeV, Ecis: CCM (vibrational), OM: RIPL #10 spherical for 
 inelastic, otherwise default internal

Eu153DIR2_DIRPOT2004_OMPOT221.zip (example d) 
 n+Eu-153 at 5 MeV, Ecis: CCM (rotational), OM: RIPL #2004 deformed for
 inelastic, RIPL #221 spherical for other neutrons, otherwise default 
 internal 
 
Eu153DIR1_DIRPOT2004_OMPOT221.zip (example e) 
 n+Eu-153 at 5 MeV, Ecis: CCM (rotational), OM: RIPL #2004 deformed for
 inelastic, RIPL #221 spherical for other neutrons, otherwise default 
 internal


6. Conclusions
==============

The most important new feature of Empire-2.15.11 is its capability to 
handle deformed nuclei. This was achieved by adding Ecis-95 as its new 
module. Further, by adding Degas, modelling of fast neutron capture, 
along with (n,p), was substantially improved. Full interface to RIPL 
optical model segment is provided, including all 293 RIPL potentials,
spherical as well as deformed.

Considering other recent improvements, such as width fluctuation
corrections, Empire becomes a highly competitive tool for evaluation 
of nuclear reaction data for a broad class of nuclei.






--------------21D0DD8FFD351DB347002164--


