                     Warnings and useful tricks
 
- Running 'FITLEV'  is not only a wise  thing to do in  order to check
  completeness  of the  levels but  also helps  to avoid  a  bug which
  causes *.lev  file with  discrete levels to  contain levels  for the
  first CN only.

- Isomeric  cross sections  can  NOT be  calculated  with ENDF  option
  activated  since direct  transitions  to discrete  levels after  the
  first neutron, proton and alpha emission are shifted artificially to
  the ground state. This is  done to avoid gamma transitions following
  direct population  of discrete levels  which in the ENDF  format are
  treated separately.

- When modifying omp in one of  the *.omp files be aware that the same
  potential appears usually for the incoming and the outgoing channel.
  To be on the safe side BOTH should be changed.

- When using 'Create ZVV' procedure avoid specifying long strings with
  multiple blanks  inside. These will  be converted to a  single blank
  and the string  won't be matched properly. As  a consequence, ZVView
  will produce rubbish.

- Editing  *.c4 file  is a  convenient  method of  removing or  adding
  experimental points  to the  plots.  See Help  -> X4TOC4  manual for
  description of the computational format (*.c4 file).

- Execute 'Clean'  after any  change in the  input file  that involves
  target, projectile, optical model parameters or number of emissions.

- Note  that 'Clean'  button  will remove  ALL  project related  files
  except the input.  If you  want to preserve any file (usually *.lev,
  *.omp or *.col  which could have been modified  manually) you should
  rename    them   before    making   'clean'    and    restore   them
  afterwords. Adding any  suffix will NOT work, adding  prefix will do
  the job.

- When the running  code is interrupted or crashes  for any reason the
  next run may fail in spite of executing 'Clean' before. It is due to
  the  files that are  left from  the first  unsuccessful run  and not
  affected  by  'Clean'.   In  such  a case  make  'Clean'  again  and
  rerun. The third  trail should go through. If this is  not a case it
  is something to worry about.

- If no plots are produced  by PLOTC4 there are several possibilities:
  a) ENDF  option set to 0 or  not activated (check input  file) 
  b) no experimental  data available (check  *.c4 or  *.exf file)  
  c) single incident energy requested 
  d) calculations were completed but one of the utility codes crashed  
     (check EMPEND, FIXUP, and SIXTAB outputs)
  e) EMPIRE exited  gracefully  but calculations  were not  completed
     (check end of the *.lst file) 
  f) EMPIRE crashed (see above)







