Title  : SIXTAB
Purpose: Convert ENDF file MF6 to Law 7 representation
Author : Andrej Trkov                        e-mail: A.Trkov@iaea.org
         International Atomic Energy Agency     tel: +43 1 2600 21712
         Nuclear Data Section                   fax: +43 1 2600 7
         Wagramerstrasse 5
         P.O.Box 100
         A-1400 Vienna
         AUSTRIA
Version: Original code March 2001
 
   Manual for Program SIXTAB
   =========================
 
   The SIXTAB program belongs to a group of codes, which form
   a supplement to the IAEA sequence of ENDF Pre-Processing codes
   (PrePro) by D.E.Cullen [1], which are designed to perform
   various operations on the basic ENDF-formatted evaluated nuclear
   data files. They provide basic tools to the user for simple,
   machine-independent interpretation and visualisation of the
   contents of the evaluated nuclear data files.
 
   The double differential data in an ENDF file MF 6 can be
   represented in various forms, including Legendre coefficients,
   Kalback-Mann formalism, pointwise representation, CM or Lab
   frame of reference, etc. This may make subsequent handling of
   the files rather difficult. The purpose of SIXTAB is to convert
   MF 6 data into pointwise representation in the Lab system
   (Law 7 ENDF format option).
 
   WARNINGS:
   1. The resulting file is generally not a substitute for the
      original file due to the assumed limitations built into
      the code. The number of angles in general may be insufficient
      to accurately represent the original data.
   2. The full complexity of the ENDF file MF 6  representation is
      not coded at present:
       - Only Law 1 Legendre (LANG=1,2) or tabulated (LANG>10)
         representations are allowed. Laws 0, 3 and 4 have the
         distributions defined by kinematics and are not affected.
         Data for Laws 2 and 3 are not converted. They are copied
         as they are.
       - Conversion to Lab from CM co-ordinate system is done
         only for neutrons, which is assumed to be the first
         outgoing particle.
       - It is assumed that neutron is the incident particle.
 
   Instructions
   ------------
   Several forms of input are allowed:
 
    A.  If the file "SIXTAB.INP" exists, the file is scanned for
        input instructions. They may be given in the "old style"
        or in the more flexible keyword-oriented style.
 
    B.  If the file "SIXTAB.INP" does not exist, and the first record
        on the default input does NOT begin with the string "$* ",
        then the default input is assumed to be the source ENDF file
        and the default output is the reformatted output ENDF file.
        This allows the use of "pipes" on Unix. On PC-Dos it is
        compiler-dependent.
 
    C.  If the file "SIXTAB.INP" does not exist, and the first record
        on the default input begins with the string "$* ", the
        default input is read as a set of keyword-oriented input
        instructions. This option is useful to divert the default
        input to a real input file from command line.
        WARNING: To use this feature make sure that SIXTAB.INP file
                 does not exist on the default directory.
 
   Old-style input instructions format:
   Two records are expected from input:
   - Name of the source ENDF file.
   - Name of the target ENDF file to be written.
 
   Keyword-oriented input instructions:
   The format follows a few simple rules, which are worth noting
   - Parameters are read in columns of 10. 
   - The first 10 columns are interpreted as the keyword.
   - Records with blanks in the first 10 columns are ignored, so
     comments may be entered freely in the input file, provided
     they appear on separate records and start after column 10.
   - Only keywords that are recognised by the program are processed.
   - The absence of a keyword for a particular parameter activates
     the default value of the parameter preset in the code.
   These rules allow the input instructions for several programs to
   appear on the same input file, provided all programs follow the
   above rules. This significantly reduces input file maintenance
   for more complicated sequences of code execution and possible
   archival of the input file for Quality Assurance purposes.
 
   Keyword
   '$* SIXTAB ' The main keyword of the SIXTAB program. All
                preceeding input is ignored.
   '   FLNINP ' Name of the source ENDF input file is given in
                columns 11-50.
   '   FLNOUT ' Name of the target ENDF output file is given in
                columns 11-50.
   '   NANGLES' Number of discrete angles for tabulation are defined
                columns 11-20.
   '   ENDSIX ' This keyword signals the end of SIXTAB input. All
                instructions that follow are ignored.
 
   File units:
    Name No. Description:
     LIN  1  Input instructions file, if not read from default input.
     LEN  2  Source ENDF input file, if not read from default input.
     LOU  3  Target ENDF output file, if not written to the default
             output.
     LKB  5  Default input.
     LTT  6  Default output.
